Nicholas Higginbotham: Hello.

19139085677: Hello!

Nicholas Higginbotham: All right, we should be all good to go.

19139085677: Okay.

Nicholas Higginbotham: alright. So the sixties we're we've been learning a lot we've been doing like a week per year, and just been learning kind of the history and the culture stuff for the sixties. And so we talked like a lot about How styles changed! How the counter culture movement kind of sprang up! How music changed a lot! And there was the Vietnam war, and Political changes. so I don't know. Just how old were you guys when the 60 started like, what do you remember. First.

19139085677: the main part, I remember is when I was in high school, which would have been about 65 to 67, 64 to 67. That was kind of the height of the 60 stuff. Anyway.

Nicholas Higginbotham: you said 64 to 67.

19139085677: It went longer than I mean. I was in the band. So mine was probably about 69.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Okay. Awesome. And grandma, were you high school at the same time?

19139085677: Yes. I graduated in 68.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Okay.  what do you think about like? What do you remember first like? Do you remember realizing that this was the sixties? Do you ever any big changes between like when you're younger and when you're in high school.

19139085677: Well, I think when the Beatles happened in 1960, I was 10, but they changed the whole a music industry when the Beatles happened, and we got to live through all that. And it was. It was a wonderful time for a lot of bands copied the Beatles, and so we had, like the greatest music, the sixties and seventies that children of today still listen to. So it was just a real phenomenal time, you know, as far as the music industry. Oh, yeah, and in line that in line with that Nicholas, that's when a bunch of what are called what's called Garage Band's Group, because the Beatles are such a big deal. A lot of people started a band and they called them garage bands because they usually practiced in the garage with the garage door open and all the neighborhood kids would hang out, and I can attest to that because a very famous singer, Alice Cooper, Vince Vernieri, that band started in Phoenix, and that's what your debt and your grandpa was saying, I would go to their band practice, and it would be in the garage outside on the patio. But everybody. The parents, would let the kids practice at the houses. And so that's where band practice happened. And some of these people we knew back in the 60 S. Became world famous artists. But they started in in their homes.

Nicholas Higginbotham: So you used to go to Alice Cooper's garage band.

19139085677: Alice Cooper. His name is Vince Bernier. and his band was called Spiders. When we were teenagers in Phoenix.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Oh, wow! So were you! Were you friends with him at all? Or did you know him, or you just go and hear the music?

19139085677: Oh, well, I absolutely did. Yeah. My brother was very good friends with him, because my brother was in a band that played opposite of the spiders in Phoenix, and they played the same club every weekend. So yes, we we knew we all knew each other.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Was that unclear on peanut butter. Yes. okay, that's pretty fun. So how old were you when that was going on?

19139085677: It was like 1617.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Hmm. okay. it's like grandpa. She's 1718, and

19139085677: that kind of that started a revolution in music, you know, that's because at that point guys in bands became more popular than the guys on sports teams. a lot more popular. The guys were the most. The guys in bands were like the heroes of the school. That's true. Yeah, all the other girls and II didn't have quite have the same experience as your mom, but you know one of mine, which was still in the sixties. was to get the hangout with a who for a couple 3 days.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Yeah. Tell me about how that all happened.

19139085677: Well, II was playing in the band, but I was working at the Hotel Glenwood Manor, and if you'll remember, they played Shawnee Mission South Senior Dance which is amazing in itself. Because that was about 1968, 69, and they They were staying at Glenwood Banner. So I ran. I was in the restaurant one day, and the road manager was eating. and we just started talking. He says, Hey, why don't you just hang with us for a few days? And I said, Okay, and he told me a room number to go up to, and I went up there and guitar Pete Townsend. Is Young League guitarist.

Nicholas Higginbotham: and I knocked on the door and pounds and answered the door.

19139085677: and then he started telling me, Hey, all the other guys will be in a little bit. Just hang out. So that started a couple 3 days with the hoof.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Oh, wow! For like 3 days, you said

19139085677: was about 3 days. And then, just because our band, our band lot of groups that came through town. Somehow we got hooked up with them spans you probably wouldn't. Wouldn't have heard too much about. But anyway, so that just started trying to think of 'em quick name. Okay, Linda. Grandma doesn't like me talking well, no, it's just a band, she that if you don't know the bands. It's not worth talking about, because they they didn't go anywhere. Yeah, they did. They played big concert tours. But you did. That wasn't your kind of music.

Nicholas Higginbotham: I'm trying to learn all I all I can. So just say

19139085677: all the information you can. Yeah, I don't remember too many of the other bands. But generally our band started hanging out with the groups coming through town and doing concerts. Okay? So that was just a big part of life with the music, but at the same time, at least, on my end. I, Grandma, can comment. That put me in that hippie culture right you hear about and the drug scene was all around us. A lot of our members in our band really got into the drug scene. And then, obviously, with these parties there were big drug scenes, and just between you and me, God really spared me because I never got into it. I tried marijuana once. It did nothing, so I didn't try anything else. Oh, good! But there were a lot of drug parties and a lot. It was. Just drugs were a big thing. And, grandma, I think they did this in Phoenix, too. Yeah, there was protests of the Vietnam war. There were people kind of anti-government at the time, a lot of because of the war. So there were protests going on. There was race riots you know. They're burning down buildings and rioting over race. Martin Luther King obviously was a big figure at that time. So all that was going on. And what reason I bring it up is every Sunday. Here in Kansas City there's a park called Volcker Park, down off the Plaza. and every Sunday all the quote Hippie group, the that culture would be a Volcker Park. Some guys, some people just sitting around with guitars, singing and playing. others were carrying signs of protesting the war, or. you know, just kind of a mixture of all the chaos in a way, but it was peace. It was peace and love worthy 2 buyers that everybody would use. So people just gather at the Park, and hang out every Sunday. Well, my experience in Phoenix was we would go to in Kanto Park. which is a real popular place in Phoenix, and they would be, and there would be like hilly areas. And people would just sit around like grandpa said, play the guitar. People would sing, but we were. We didn't do any. There wasn't any protesting going on. People would come around and give us like buckets of flowers, and then we'd go around with all the the like adults and the families and stuff. and we would hand out flowers to them and say, You know, peace, and then we would get big circles and we'd dance around in circles and just singing like real sweet songs. So ours was basically just real peaceful and like and the hippies were. You know they were peaceful, and they were, you know it. It was. It was a protesting going on where I lived. Well, when I said, protesting, I mean peace or protest, these people carrying signs or something. All the other stuff was just what Linda described. It was just peace and love wasn't like a protest like militant, or Trying to hurt anybody or tear up anything. They just. They were against the war because all of us were up for the draft. And everybody draft, you know a lot of guys are burning their draft cards at that time, and they didn't want to go to so they were protesting the Vietnam war, but in a peaceful way they weren't trying to be jerks about it that, like grandma said that the hippie culture was a very mellow, peaceful group. In fact, a lot of them were on drugs. It couldn't be anything but melodrama, but I have to say the outcome of all that was. We saw thousands of people come to Jesus. So when you see the Jesus Revolution, that was really what we're talking about. That's how it was. But in that people were they had a hole in their heart searching for something, and I believe that that, you know people were openly talking about the Lord, and thousands of kids got saved during that time. Yeah, I'd say a lot of the hippies were open to everything, so that opened the door like grandma said, I think it was just a real searching time for meaning and live and there it was, just led to the Jesus Revolution. which late 60 s. Early 70 s. Just millions of those young people came to the Lord.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Wow. I do. Yeah. We wanna talk about that in just a second to finish up the music. Do you remember the music when you were like young kids? And then how it changed through the 60 s. And then what it ended up being and like what the big changes were.

19139085677: Well, I mean, the music test in the fifties was probably an Elvis Presley, and you know some of those kind of acts music changed in the 1. One part of it was. This isn't all. Part of it was what they called counter culture music. So it was kind of the feelings of the hippies and the feelings of the time put to music, which was different than music from the fifties, because the music from the fifties, and that was kind of a love couples, you know. It's just kind of a I don't know how to describe it. It was just kind of a couples thing, you know. It was kind of a typical deal, but when you got to the 60 s. They started putting music together. That would voice a lot of the feelings and concerns about those young people.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Okay, so what kind of themes are those?

19139085677: Oh, you know there were drug teams, unfortunately, but, like grandma said, there was a song called War. What is this all about. And so there were a lot of songs centered on peace and anti war at that time. So it really was just seeking, you know, in a lot of it was poems that people would write and how they felt, and it would be about. You know, it would be about, you know, loving somebody, or it could be about. You know, about the war stuff, you know. We'd have the war songs that were our, you know. Rah! Rah! Songs. But it pretty much was. The songs are about how people felt of what was in their everyday life. And then you went, you know, with they have some that probably people would say, were drug induced, like Lucy in the sky, with diamonds by the Beatles. The Beatles claim it wasn't. But there were songs like that that were just kinda and what was really big for some of the bands at that time, and we did it for a while was what was called light shows and that was really a drug oriented type music, because the you know, the the scene. It set up a scene, a stage presence that hadn't been there before.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Yeah. that makes sense. So you're saying the teams were kind of it. Just it kind of changed from being like all nice and kind of maybe lovey, and to more expressing the true feelings about how people are feeling like about, like the Warsaw, or what is this all about, or maybe just like grandma. You said poems they have. People are feeling about their everyday life. So that's kind of like the big. They just became maybe more honest. Is that a good way to say it? Or

19139085677: right? I think so. They were meaningful. They just weren't silly words made up to a melody. They a lot of the music was from the heart, just like in church, you know, because we, you know, in those days, after you know, in our early twenties. Then the people wrote so many songs about the Lord, how they felt they'd get up with their guitar and sing it, which we haven't seen that in what? 20 years now. But back then, because that was kind of the take from all these hippies that got safe, which a lot of our friends came from that culture big time. We were just more we were like, I say, I would be on the edge of that I knew about it, but I didn't participate in like the hippie scene, but we knew a lot of friends that truly lived that lifestyle which would be living together and doing drugs together, and, you know, dropping out of society kind of thing. But I wasn't that I, Nick and I. We always worked, but we were, of course. associated with that whole thing, but we weren't really in in it. Well, I got a little more into the ground. We did go down Westport was the area here in Tennessee, where all the hippies live. and we went down there quite a few times, just to hang out with people, and their apartments were kind of interesting, because generally they were just some mattresses filling them thrown on the floor. and there were some drugs going on lots of times. So they it was. It was different. But the bottom line. What we're trying to say is I. There was kind of there was this searching and sincerity put together? You know they hippies were searching. They they felt like the world was like, wait a second. Why are we into war. Why do we hate each other? It should be love, it should be peace. and they they rebelled against parents, because in those days parents were strict with their children, which we agree with now that we're at this age. But kids were running away from home all the time, because, you know, they didn't want to submit to their their parents. And so you had a lot of that going on, people kids mad at their parents. And nowadays, parents, you know, they give their kids whatever kids don't run away anymore because they don't need to. But you know they're given way too much. And they're not challenged and disciplined. I'd I'd say a little differently, because I think, yeah, they were against their parents, but they were against the government, too. I think there was a real questioning of authority at the time among a lot of people, and it's because they've seen this world. you know. To them was going crazy. This world was in war, there wasn't peace, there was hate. There was these race problems. And there was this kind of this weight authority. What's authority doing here, I mean. And so there's kind of a rebellion against authority. Well, and then you had the Penn State where they shot students for protesting, and once I saw hey, look! What's going down? There's a man with a gun over there telling me I got to be good. Springfield. Yeah, that song came from that. So you know, kids were angry because of students getting killed at Penn State

Nicholas Higginbotham: shooting

19139085677: about the shooting.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Yeah, what? What were your thoughts when that happened?

19139085677: Well, I guess. To be honest, I really, you know, II like the song. And I'm thinking, Yeah, that's really bad. But I you know, it wasn't like my. It just happened during that period. It was just, you know. We thought that was bad to do that. But

Nicholas Higginbotham: anyway, when that when that happened, what were your thoughts.

19139085677: It was wrong, I mean I we thought it was wrong, but I don't think there's any big uprising about it. I mean, there's a big uprising. But I mean personally in in that makes sense.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Yeah, what song do you did you say was written about it.

19139085677: buffalo? I don't know the name of it. But Buffalo Springfield did it, and the words were, You know there's a man with a gun standing over there telling me I got to be good. Well, that all pertains to that Penn state shooting.  yeah, it's I should look. I'll look it up, Nicholas. I can't remember the name she's got a do you think grandma's a researcher?

Nicholas Higginbotham: But go ahead.

19139085677: No, I just say grandma's a researcher. She's going to look it up.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Okay. do you think the the music influenced, like other young people, to kind of join the counter culture? Do you think the music was coming only out of the counter culture. How do you think those 2 things influence each other?

19139085677: II think the music encouraged people, but there was, I would say, there's 2 sets of people. At the time. Nicholas there were. There were kids in our high school. We called one group Greasers, and we called the other group kind of Hippie Group, and then you had the athletes in between. Oh, grandma's guys, we had cowboy and surfers because we were my California. So the cool kids were surfers, and they dress cool, and they're wonderful. And the cowboys were like the boots and cowboy hats, and they they weren't well respected in my day. It was all about surfers and bands. and a lot of the hippie guys weren't really real respected, either. I mean, eventually my hair grew long out, and you know, people see me, and it just shock them. They they didn't like the long hair on guys.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Oh, yeah. made you want to cut your hair?

19139085677: Yeah, well, that's when it wasn't real long, and then I'd let it get real long. I pulled into a gas station one day as a sideline to get gas and the guy they used to pump your gas for you, and Guy walks up behind, you know, behind me on my backside to say what he can I help you? And he said, Can I help you, ma'am?

Nicholas Higginbotham: Oh, did he really?

19139085677: No, I think that kind of shocked me.

Nicholas Higginbotham:  Do you think that like, how are you treated after you grew your hair out? Or do people like listen to as much, or like you just save gave that like funny story. But out in other ways.

19139085677: Yeah, I don't. Em. People look at you funny. But I can't remember anybody really treating us bad. The one another kind of funny experience we had, which could have turned into a bad one. We played the the senior prom at Lewisburg High School. and afterwards. I don't know why we did this. There was a dumpy little motel, so we got a room to spend the night.

Nicholas Higginbotham:  and it was really a dumpy hotel.

19139085677: And so the guy, one of the guys ran across the street to get some stuff, some food and drinks to bring back. And I guess that put us on their radar because they started watching the motel.

Nicholas Higginbotham: And unfortunately.

19139085677: this is how bad the motel was. Nicholas, one of our band members was goofing around. One of the guys went to bed early, and one of the guys was kinda goofing when he went up and kicked kind of one of the ends of the bed.

Nicholas Higginbotham: and the leg totally broke up.

19139085677: The next morning they caused us a lot of hassle. When we were when we were. Well, my grandma wants to eat for what it's worth. Yes, ma'am. so my trees

Nicholas Higginbotham: I remember listening to song in class. Actually we we listen to it for for class.

19139085677: Okay, that's for what it's worth by Buffalo, Springfield. But Nicholas, the video. those scenes of all the all the kind of the chaos at the time. Yeah. Oh, wow, okay, for what it's worth. Yeah, for what it's worth by Buffalo Springfield. That'll be yeah. Your report of what happened in the 60 S. Because they talk about the heat of the police, and they they could arrest protesters in that day.

Nicholas Higginbotham: They were, you know, if they got wrapped they'd arrest them. Oh, yeah.  okay, that's So some of kind of the music thing. You kinda it changed from being kind of a little superficial and just like happy on the surface to maybe expressing the feelings of the young people. And you guys think they're kind of okay, that's so, then it kind of that kind of can resonated with the young people. And they started kind of join together and join the counterculture movement. Right. Is that right?

19139085677: Yep.

Nicholas Higginbotham: alright, maybe. What about could you describe the counter-culture movement a little bit? Maybe when you first noticed it? And when you first started getting involved with it, and stuff like that.

19139085677: Mine was just through the band. I you know, I joined the band when I was in high school. and that's where we just started melting into it, I guess melting into it is is at that time. But it was pretty obvious, nationally, I mean. It was on the news. It was. It was it was well known, for sure.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Was everybody joining in the counterculture thing? You think it was just kind of everyone just getting absorbed into it.

19139085677: Not everybody. Because that's why I was saying there's different. There were different kinds of kids. You know. You had some kids who were the hippie style, and some of them weren't full hippie like they weren't the long hair and everything. But they really associated with the counterculture stuff. But then you had some like I call them Greasers. Grandma maybe calls them cowboys, and then you have the surfer kind. I mean the Beach boys were a big band at that time. Jan and Dean was another group that was big at that time. So you kind of had different segments like the war movement songs in the settings. And that was during.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Okay, so how would how would you describe the counterculture?

19139085677: I just think it was kind of a don't know. I don't. A real good description. Grandma can help me. But I would say. in a way, kids were just frustrated. maybe even felt somewhat lost, felt like authority add. you know, kind of abandon them by having war and all the race riots and stuff. There's all this conflict, all of this chaos turmoil. And I think I think to me, the young people just felt like started seeking, how can we? Where do we find peace. Where do we find love? And then that that got expressed through the music and the park meetings? I think the biggest thing that set it off was the Vietnam war, because we had kids that we knew there were teenagers they got sent off to war. I always remember a real sweet kid. He used to pick Earl and I up for school. Short Guy just nice, wonderful family. He got drafted, and the first month he was there he got killed. So we were dealing with that. So you have to understand. And the kids were petrified. They were going to get drafted, and they had a war that they couldn't define what? Why, we were doing it, you know, they were saying, oh, we're we're we're keeping, you know, keeping them out of Communism. So we're gonna go over there and fight Communism. So it doesn't take. Take over Vietnam. And you know, there again, you know, I come to an understanding that I don't understand. Why is that all? All the time have to be our business, you know. They say, oh, we'll do the war there, so it doesn't come here. Well, I think that was an unnecessary. ignorant war, because they were sending our guys over there, and they were being killed, and they'd come home. They don't even know what they were there for, except for that dumb excuse. And then, when they came home, our own Americans treated them like dirt, they spit on them, and they called them baby killers because we were seeing the news where, you know, all this stuff was happening over there, so our soldiers were highly disrespected. They couldn't even wear the uniform, and they came home that day put civilian clothes on right away because they were. They were hated by the you know the Americans and it they. It wasn't their fault that they were sent over there, but they were badly mistreated. It was a horrible, horrible time that Vietnam war was like it was like it was the worst thing that happened in the 60 Si would say. Number one. Worst thing, I'd give a little different perspective, Nicholas, in that at that time period Communism and the United States were at war with each other, and we were trying to stop the spread of Communism. I think the big problem that a lot of people had is we didn't go into the war to women. We went into the war just to be a police force. and therefore it just it just never had a real strong purpose to the war. Except, as grandma said, just kind of turned. Well, we gotta stop communism. Well, it was. It was like a bunch of policemen standing in front of a protest in riot gear and doing nothing, you know. It was like. In other words, we didn't go to win. We didn't go to stomp out Communism. We went just to kind of police it that make sense.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Yeah. So you had like, no defined purpose. And so so that's what kind of made it Whoopee, like. No one knew what they were fighting for.

19139085677: Right.

Nicholas Higginbotham: I see. I see, I see. So. papa, you said you first got involved in the counter culture when you we joined the band in high school, and it was that freshman year.

19139085677: No, I think I was a sophomore when I first joined a band, and it wasn't quite the cultured counter culture music. When I first joined the band the the British invasion quote had started. which was the Beatles, the King. There were a lot of groups came from Britain. and their first music wasn't really counterculture music, you know. I wanna hold your hand by the Beatles. It's not very counterculture, simple. simple lyrics, simple songs, and it was just a new sound. Everybody could sing along with them because the words were so. It was real, repetitive, and simple. you know words repeated over and over, so everyone can sing every word of the Beatles songs. If I start of a tune today, I can sing the whole song for you, because it's so. It's very simplistic that music grew into that. Music grew into the counter, counts counter culture, music.  a little bit. But again, like I said, there were different streams of music. It wasn't all counter culture. There were the other groups that weren't quite the same weren't quite bad, I think the Beatles. And then the reason someone made it was it, even though the music wasn't counter culture? It was a new sound. It's something we hadn't heard before. and plus they just were cool. They just had a new look. They had their little bit longer hair, and, too, you know, to be honest when I talk about their beginning, music being simple as they as it progressed, and in the latter beatle music, it started having meaning to it, and being, you know better, you know well, not better. It was different cause it was great in the beginning, but in the end they started having some more serious music, which was still great. What they did is they experimented a lot with different things like they'd go over and meet with the All the Maharishi, and that and India and stuff. And then they picked up sitar sitar became part of the music. They they pick up all these new instruments and elements to music. And then they got into technology and how they could use technology to make a new sound. They were very experimental in music. During that whole time. So that's why they had to me. That's why they had a tremendous impact on the long run on music. I'm acceptable. It kept it going. They kept just experimenting, finding new ways. which I think a lot of groups don't. Yeah.

Nicholas Higginbotham: What do you think made the music turn dark like. You said it changed from just being happy and simplistic. What do you think like it was the times, or maybe the drug influence so like what made it change over the course of the sixties.

19139085677: I think it's times, as you probably know, from some of your classes. I think a lot of the arts quote music, whatever it may be, is somewhat a reflection of the culture.  and I think that the culture began changing and music began changing, and that is maybe a little bit of a dual path. It was a reflection of the culture at the time.

Nicholas Higginbotham: I see

19139085677: how people express themselves was through the music. And then, people, we're all living the same things going on in our world. So the music came out. We could relate to it. It was very relatable, so we could listen to it. And I mean, we, in being a teenager in the sixties and seventies, is like getting up and immediately listening to your music and listening to your music till you went to bed. That was that was our life. It was music. you know, where today. It's all the I'm on my phone all the time. Stuff ours. We were listening to music from morning to night. That's what we did. Everybody listens to the music

Nicholas Higginbotham: because it was it kind of was kind of expressing a lot of the feelings everybody had. It was, I think, what was interesting was you had.

19139085677: you know it. It really expanded the impact of music. I'm trying to figure out how to say this before you all understand relationships. And the music before was about a relationship, this expanded music to talk about issues, politics. It expanded it from what music used to be. Just kind of a nice feel good relationship type music to really cultural music, you know, addressing the culture addressing what's going on, it expanded kind of what music was at the time, and maybe that was part of the why there was an appeal and such a revolution in it.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Interesting! Great. Okay. Alright, grandma. When do you remember? So papa said he was when he joined the band. He started getting involved with kind of like counterculture. The hippie type deal. When do you remember first like noticing it. And then when do you remember, like kind of becoming a part of it, like going to the parks and stuff

19139085677: when that when I started noticing it.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Yeah, when you like, when when you were a kid, when did you first see like notice. like, what was your first memory of like? Oh, these are the Hippies, or like these are the counterculture people. And then when did you decide to kind of join them?

19139085677: Well, I say that I mean join it? I don't know. You would just, you know, even today, you, your your circle of friends. You all believe the same thing. So to me I travelled in that kind of arena, the people that we believe things you know about what was going on in the world. It was like, those are the people you hung out with. You had your groups just like you do today. So I would. I would probably put that at. I was probably. oh. probably say a sophomore in high school. And then through my high school years, I hung with the people that we had similar beliefs about what we thought. You know. you know, being against the war. Prior to that, everybody was always for all the wars. They were like the Great American Spirit, were for World war, one World War Ii. All the wars that were fought. It was as though America was behind it and believed in it 100%. But that was a big turning point and a discussion of you know, you know the whole. I think that Vietnam war was just a horrible thing for all of us, and so we would. We would all we were like like minded, and how we thought about it. And we discuss things. We debate things. And you know. I think we've lost a lot of that today, but we would discuss things and form our own opinions. It wasn't like, you have to believe like me. But we were like minded in many issues. And even though we could disagree, you know, and you know. you know, because you have people. We all knew people that went to the war, and we knew people that came back mangled, I mean. So it was for everybody that was such a big thing. When we get together we talk about it and listen to our music and talk about, you know, current issues. And I guess we were pretty informed. II loved government, and I love civics that I had to take in high school. I love those subjects and that I think that's when I started getting excited about the political realm, because those were my favorite classes to learn all that. And we we had to be more Our schools always taught us to love our country and to, you know, appreciate, you know, where we'd come from. And it was just, you know, it was just one of those things. The the Vietnam war was a real issue that we couldn't agree with, and we couldn't understand. Why, you know, why weren't the adults saying, You know, stop this thing? Why weren't the people of government stopping it? Why are we doing this? You know you're telling us that. But why are all of our friends and teenagers and people getting maimed and killed, you know. So that was a real big deal.

Nicholas Higginbotham: and I think it's horrible.

19139085677: The war was the key. But again you had, for whatever reason, you had the race riots popping up, plus you had 2 or 3 assassinations. At that time John F. Kennedy was assassinated. Robert Kennedy's brother was assassinated, and Martin Luther King, Jr. Was assassinated. So I say all that to say the mixes in was. you got a bunch of young people, and they're seeing all this going on in the world. the war being their biggest threat because they might be drafted and have to go, and for no reason to their mind. But then they also saw this other chaos, all this other stuff happening. And they're going, hey? All we want is peace and love. That's all we want. Now, too, you need to understand that that when they they talk about race riots in the sixties I don't. For some reason I don't even like to call it that, because for me it seems like everyone that I knew they those people were. They were rebelling because of civil rights. They weren't allowed to do all these things that American are afforded to do. I mean, like you kind of ride back in the bucks. You couldn't. You know there was a fount for blacks and for whites. All that stuff the people I hunt with we were like, yeah, that's terrible. That needs to change. They're Americans. They should be afforded the same, you know, liberties we get. And so that was one of those things. I think that my Group age group. We were all like, Yeah, that's they that the black people were the ones that you know right? And some, you know, whites joined in it in it. But that was a time that I would have to say I don't. I don't agree with these all these nasty protests, and Crud goes on today. But in that day they had a valid reason for what they were doing. And you know, so most of yeah, we all agreed with that. Yeah, this needs to change. And that's how you know, things started changing. And Martin Luther King he he upheld, you know. good good values that he would stand up in front of people and tell them you know good things. It wasn't like, you know, hate in America, and blah blah blah! It was all about. We just want our rights to be, you know, American citizens without all these stipulations for black people. So you know, we were definitely in that group that were for their civil rights. And I think all hippies were even in that group that's back to. Yeah, that grandma explained it better than I did. You can't just call race rice. They they did have some real grievances with with civil rights. There's absolutely right. I like the one line everybody repeats now from Martin Luther King is you? You should judge people by their by their character, not the color of their skin. He had a lot. There's a lot of good know he and he believed in Peaceful. He did not believe in the riot type. you know. They marched across the bridge all the black people it was, for it was for civil rights.

Nicholas Higginbotham: and they got is that

19139085677: I was gonna say their protesting was a good thing cause. The outcome was that they gained their liberty. Well, they you had 2 sets of protesters. You had the Martin Luther King, peaceful protesters, then you had a burning buildings and riding and grandma's ride. It was all because they were fighting for their civil rights.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Okay. so what did you? What do you remember thinking? When you're hearing about all these like the riots of the protest. What do you ever think about Martin Luther King? And yeah, what do you remember thinking when all that was going on.

19139085677: when what was going on, honey.

Nicholas Higginbotham: yeah, did you have any personal experience with there any like protests or riots around where you were or

19139085677: they were. They were kind of contained in the LA. Area right? We had them in downtown Kansas City. Well, maybe the big cities. Yeah, I don't. I had in downtown Kansas City. But to be honest with you, I guess I was a suburban white boy. Yeah, it didn't. They were rioting it. It didn't affect us. We understood the Civil rights movement. Why they were fighting for their civil rights, but it didn't really effect is that that makes sense. We were out in the suburbs. And oh, yeah, they're riding downtown tonight.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Okay?

19139085677: But we understood that the today rice and stuff. they're just mean-spirited people hate my country.

Nicholas Higginbotham: What do you remember thinking when you heard Martin Luther King got shot?

19139085677: Sads! Yeah. Because he he was. He was well respected by, you know, if you say, if you want to do like Democrat Republicans, a nation as a nation, he was very well respected. You probably had people in the South like, who was that governor was horrible? A governor that went to seg segregate the children he got killed. Yes, yeah, Wallace, so you had people like that in the deep South that didn't want didn't want change and stuff. But I would say the majority of Americans, or where I live. They were all they they like. They liked Martin Luther King's message.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Okay. but it it was kinda just like it wasn't a big moment for you. You just remember. That's pretty sad.

19139085677: It's a big moment, I mean, II think you, when a national leader ever is assassinated, it's a big impact on the nation on your life. You know, it's yeah. I can't say I mourn for days, but it was a big impact. Because if you you know you believe that they had a right to fight for civil rights. And then now one of their leaders who led, and what most people believe was the proper way in a peaceful demonstration, in peaceful protests. For him to be killed! You're going! Why, what I mean? What do? Why. yeah. So you know it's but, and the devastation of all those murders was touched closer to our our home was the John F. Kennedy, but I was in eighth grade, and they let us off school for 3 days, and we just sit in front of our TV sets and watch every second of you know the funeral and all of that. And so it was. I think that was a real time of mourning for the whole of all of America. I think that the King. Assassination was probably very most devastating to the black people. but you know and yes, we were on the outskirts looking in and saying, We're for you. We you know we feel bad that this happened. But what happens to the President happens to every race in color, you know everybody. So that was probably out of all those assassinations that was the the hardest one, because it was our country was hit and very popular. What do you?

Nicholas Higginbotham: Yeah, I was. Gonna say, what do you remember thinking about Jfk.

19139085677: we all like him, and you know, Nicholas, I still have the newspapers of his assassination and everything that's you know, not the biggest horror, but some things in history. I just felt as a little kid. I was what you know, 12 or so. Yeah, 12 I kept. I kept I somehow I just thought I need to keep these newspapers so that may be even something you somebody want to look at. I've got all of the papers when he was assassinated in the days you know, following.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Oh, yeah, that's Nicholas Nick.

19139085677: Thing about John F. Kennedy. I think our standpoint would be. It wasn't as big a Republican Democrat divide at the time. There was 2 things about John F. Kennedy. One is, they called it Camelot. His family and their their whole deal, because it was almost like a King and Queen of the United States. They were. They just had a charisma and aura about them. They were young, and everyone had 2 little children, good looking, and that captivated the nation, really captivated the nation, and at the time he would probably be considered more of a Republican now than than he was then, because he was really pretty conservative in a lot of these political views, and I don't know of anyone who really ragged on him. The press, the the people they loved him, and you know what we knew of a man I mean. Then, years later, you find out he did all these, you know. He was kind of morally bankrupt, but he did do good things for the nation, and he gave good speeches which we always had to learn. Ask not what your country can do for you, but ask what you can do for your country, and to me that is, that line lives on forever. And as American, that truly is something we should we, as an American, we should live by that that was his, I think, most famous.

Nicholas Higginbotham: How do you? How do you mean they call them Camelot, like there was just like the whole family, or just him. Or how does that play out?

19139085677: Just yeah. His family, the aura, you know. I don't know much about Camelot, but it's just kind of the reason I said, King and Queen. It's kind of the storybook. but family storybook, kinda or it it just it because you came from a family, a big family, and they were a political people. you know. He had a brother who was a Senator. He had, you know they were. They were politically hooked up, and so you had. You know his uncle was a senator. His brother was his attorney general. So you had a lot of family involvement with politics in that day. So they we thought, you know they're there to serve us, and they love our country. And so this beautiful big family, his siblings, and his whole family. There was very politically, you know, plugged in, and they they fought for the civil rights they took on the mafia.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Oh, really, they just

19139085677: the all American. do you know?

Nicholas Higginbotham: See, they fought for civil rights. Click on the mafia. What do you mean? They took on the mafia

19139085677: might be a side story. That's a little bit. But they did, probably for civil rights. They didn't. Did you read O'riley killing the bob?

Nicholas Higginbotham: What did you think about Bobby? Kennedy

19139085677: was the Attorney General, and when he was running for President he got killed. and he, too, he and his brother. They stood for values that today would be Republican, you know. Of course, they were Catholics, and that was first time we had a Catholic President. It was the first time we had a young president, and that's why I think people were captivated by them, because we always had old Presidents. And then we got Kennedy. And here was this, you know young guy and beautiful wife and cute little kids and I don't know where I was going with that. But anyway,

Nicholas Higginbotham: yeah, would you? Do you remember hearing a lot about Bobby Kennedy running for President?

19139085677: I really didn't know very much about Bobby Kennedy, because his brother, the President, was so he was such the big guy that he so overshadowed his brother. I think the sad thing about Bobby Kennedy Nicholas was everybody kind of assumed. Maybe that would carry on the Kennedy legacy that we would find. You know this kind of administration. He was young. you know, very prismatic, but charismatic, you know, and I think the country thought, oh, man, we'll just carry on this great Kennedy legacy, you know. It was kind of sad when he was a

Nicholas Higginbotham: we do. What do you remember about when he was assassinated?

19139085677: Mean? It wasn't as big a deal as when his brother was assassinated, but it was a big deal. I mean, we didn't close down schools or anything. But again, because I think there was a kind of an affinity towards him that you'd probably, you know, go? Oh, no! What now? What's weird about those that of Oswald who killed Kennedy? He had lived in Russia and had a Russian wife, and you know we had these weird international connections to these murders. And then the guy who killed Robert Kennedy. He was an Arab so it was just like. you know I the those countries were, you know. II think they were jealous of America, and they didn't. They didn't like us because of our prosperity and stuff. And they just had people that that demonic spirit started building. And and I think now it's so out of control. How they despise us all, you know, but it starts like, and then it grows. So we had a lot of that hatred for us. And we're just still, you know, dumb going along. you know, love and everything and everybody, and that. And that hate was stirring up in those those other countries towards the Americans we pretty well had. We did pretty well have a cold war going on with Russia at that time. They called it a cold war. It was kind of a battle against Communism and a race, for who could get the most, the strongest bomb. And of course, during that time with the Cuban missile missile crisis. John F. Kennedy was President. and he scared down Russia to take those missiles out of Cuba which would have been only 90 miles from Florida. So that happened in the sixties, too.

Nicholas Higginbotham: What do you remember thinking as people living during the time of the Cold War? Were you all very scared about nuclear war, or was it just another fact of life. How did that go down?

19139085677: Don't know. If we were that nervous about it? It might have entered in a little bit into. you know all the hippie peace and love thing, but I think the funniest part was, and this goes back to the fifties, but it planted the the thought in us when we were in schools. We used to have bomb drills. and they tell us to get under our desk. I mean, how's that save you atomic? Mom?

Nicholas Higginbotham: Yeah, I don't. I don't know how that would save you.

19139085677: But I'm saying that just kind of starts planning in you planting in you. I don't know if I ever had a fear. But it plants in you. Okay, we got an enemy here. Yeah, who who wants to kill us? And so you know the Cold War kind of this branch of that. And during the Cold War you're seeing this advancement of weapons that make them stronger and stronger and stronger. So that's kind of a cold war thing is, are we communism and democracy battling each other? And is it going to end up in destruction.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Yeah.

19139085677: but you never. It wasn't like maybe a big factor, everyday life for you guys. It was just kind of something that happened, you know, having fun. And so those things are more adult conversations in a day. We were aware of it. But we didn't. As children, we didn't focus on that. We had all of our fun. Things teenagers. We were being teenagers.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Hmm! That makes sense. Speaking of being teenagers. What was you go, my remember you saying you went to to California during the summer of love. You got to tell me a little bit more about that.

19139085677: Oh. actually. I went there with a group of kids, and we stayed in the Wellnix Beach House. Where was the Utopia? This is Weldick was there, and her daughter Nancy. It was in. Let's see, what was the beach? Well, it was. La, yeah, it was. La! I can't remember exact beach, you know. We were right there in La. And so the a girl side of the beach house, the boys on the other side, and then the mom, you know, watched over us, but one of the boys in that in that group he became the lead singer of the tubes, and then he he became the keyboard board person for the grateful dead, and that was his mom and dad's house that we stayed in that summer. And then the band that we but that was what was his. Yeah, Vince Bernier was Alice Cooper, and Vince Welnick was the guy who ended up in the tubes. Oh, yeah. So it was the well mixed beach house. And so we traveled. Every night we'd go to a different teenage nightclub, and our the band played at those clubs. And who was I talking about the Cheetah Club. The Cheetah Club was my favourite one. Because you walk out, Mr. Wayne. Okay, the Cheetah Club. You'd walk out on a bridge, and the club was out there, and it produced lots of famous bands in the sixties. But I at least got to go to the Cheetah Club. And yeah, it was yeah, at night, you know, we'd on the beach and have bonfires, and we'd sit around. We'd talk. It was. It was real people were real. you know we just didn't talk about the weather. We talked about life, and you know the world and all that, and we met people from all over the world. And it was just a wonderful, wonderful summer that I got to do that clean. I mean, it was just know nothing. It's just this. I would let my, you kids, my grandkids, go on a trip like that, even though it seems a little weird. But it was the guys and the girls all living together for, like, you know, 10 days or something, and we just played on the beach every day and built sand castles. I still have pictures of these famous people when they were teenagers, you know, and we did that kind of stuff together, and it was just good, clean fun. My best friend Kathy. She actually dated Paul Weiss, which is, you know, he was the lead singer of the group, but that was the only couple. The rest were just kids hanging out.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Wow! What did you say? You say he became the keyboardist for the grateful dead? Yes. there's that great microscope

19139085677: like yours, grateful bad. Huh!

Nicholas Higginbotham: That's a that's a crazy summer. So do you remember? Cause that was right during the summer of love in California, when all the all the hippies were there. Do you remember seeing a lot of that stuff, or is that not really near you?

19139085677: Well, it was okay. That was, I think I was 17. So we've been 67, 1967  you know it wasn't. I don't know that you, the people you know, they have the long hair that were surfers, you know. It was just. But people, it was just like people got along. And they talk to each other. You know, people today seem like they're all skittish when they round people, and they, you know, they don't really talk, but people real open to talk to each other and say, Hi, you know how you know. How's it going? And you know it just it was a a real it was a it was a beautiful time in that way. One night the the grunions would run, come up on the beach at night. These little fish and people would go out there, and, you know, run around picking them up, you know, and just this all kinds of fun stuff. And you didn't see a lot of angry people. You know it was. It was I don't know. It was just a real good memory.

Nicholas Higginbotham: That's great. That is a wonderful summer. I think. I thought last time we talked we had thought it was 69. But you're saying it's not 67.

19139085677: Oh, no, honey fit. I was born 1950. I would have been 9 years old, and this is 67. I was 170, I'm sorry in that realm. 60 I think I was a sophomore in high school. I don't. I wasn't a senior. Now I remember my senior year, so would have been my. It would have been my sophomore junior year. I don't know exactly. You know what it was.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Okay. okay, that sounds awesome. Do you remember? So at that time in the sixties, we kind of learned a little bit about this in in class. But I guess there wasn't much of a drug scene going right. It was just all. Everyone's just kind of peace and love. And there wasn't.

19139085677: The guys in our group did not do do drugs? No. we actually we did. They did drink. This is what's weird. They were. They had to be, you know, ready to. They would practice in the daytime or go out to the beach, but it was like, I don't. I don't even. I don't even remember meeting anybody in LA. At that time that were doped up, or you know, you know, alcoholic or anything like that. It just seemed like. yeah, yeah, I think 67 was a little pre real counterculture hippie movement. It was just kind of a maybe a beginning or something. But I don't remember much drugs or anything in the 67. It seems like it was later 68, 69, and then it may went into 70. But I was getting old. Right? Yeah. Do you? Do you remember when the drug movement started to become a thing? Lsd, I we we would hear, I guess what. Probably we would hear about. You know some. You'd have the news that somebody had developed it, and they were using it. And they were having these trips and stuff like that. But that isn't the group that I hung in. So I don't. II mean, I've been at parties where they you know they talk about. They'd done Lsd. Or something, and it was a trip, and what happened and all that, but it wasn't like I don't know which. It probably started before either one of us would have even been aware of it, because Timothy Leary was the guy who originally was the big proponent of Lsd in psychedelic drugs. and it probably started earlier than I can remember, probably started earlier, you know, when I say 67, I don't remember much. That's just personally there probably drugs happening and things happening out there. But I wasn't aware of until it got more in the band and more involved in the 68, 69 Tiber, I would say. What was big. It wasn't those kind of drugs, but there were a lot of people who smoked pot. The pot was real big, and you know I mean, you go to a party. There was always a little group around there smoking pot, and it always scared me to death. I was petrified of it. I thought I'd get arrested because you would get arrested for pot in that day, but I would say that was the drug that you know in that day. It was it was pot, for sure. You know, I take that back a little bit. Nickel 67 was the year I graduated. and I was already in the band. And I guess we're a little bit in contact with people involved in drugs in 67. But before that I don't remember much about the whole. That whole scene.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Okay, what do you? What do you think? Like as you were living through that. Did you see like how the drug movement kind of got caught up with the counter culture and how that influence? Maybe the hippies like, was it? Was it like happy. And then the drugs started getting involved and everything kind of started falling apart. Or what happened there.

19139085677: Drugs didn't have a good impact. Our our our lead guitar submitted. Suicide, basically due to drugs. had a lot of destructive. We had a singer at 1 point, Nicholas. who, I watch. He went to Ku and was a brilliant guy when he first became our singer, got into the drugs with everybody, and I'm telling you honestly and literally his mind became a peanut. I mean, he just lost his it. It just was a weird transformation that I saw. So that wasn't very negative effect to that whole drug scene, was it? It could be destructive to your life when you were really thinking you were looking for. you know. Kind of a panacea. You ended up having problems from the drugs. I don't know if I could. what what affected what? It just all was a part of each other, you know.  I don't know how things. I don't know how, what started, what or how it affected. But I it just became a part. Both of them became a part of each other.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Yeah, what do you think caused kind of the end of the the hippie movement

19139085677: diesel movement.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Okay?

19139085677: And to go get a job to survive. They had to say, Hey, if I'm gonna eat, I need to. I need to get a job. It's probably it is that, too? you know, as you grow older and like grandma said, you gotta make money. You gotta pay bills. You start changing, although I would argue that some adults today are still kind of living the high high hippie principles with their kids. And the way they raise kids, college professors. Yeah, you know there, there's still that I think that's had an impact. Even in today's society, the radical yeah, the the bad side of the movement. Yeah, the Free love and sex drugs and rock and roll. Yeah, that was one of the things. And you know that in the sixties is when the women's movement started and abortion, began to read my book. Abortion became more accepted. And so I'm just saying this Free Love still lives on in a lot of parts of our of our culture.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Yeah. can you? I mean, you guys are pretty experienced with the Jesus movement. Can you tell me a little bit about that

19139085677: it was. It was miraculous. I don't it just I would say, Nick, that probably when we got saved in 70 72, 1972, we were like like 2021, 22. That's when The like. Our church, was just full of hippies. I mean, there were people that came in barefoot, dirty. dirty hair, and they got saved. And so what your dad and I asked your grandpa actually saw with our own eyes is the transformation. And it was happening all over the United States. They were they, they were seekers. And so and so they had that emptiness in their heart. So they were seeking for something, they filled it with drugs, they filled it with sex, they filled it with all these other things, but when they found, then, when they found. The Lord it! It's something you could never put your finger on and say there was a reason why this happened. It just it was just like a move of the Holy Spirit. And it happened nation all over the country. And and they just started coming to the churches. And we had oh, even today we know people that came in. They were living together. They were just nasty, and you know they they came in and they got saved. They cleaned their lives up and became these outstanding citizens. But I would say our church was probably we started a few people in at the hundreds and hundreds of people. And most of those were just hippies that came in.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Wow! How did you get involved?

19139085677: We we had jobs and we had. We had a child, and we we went to church because we were these outstanding citizens, and so getting involved. We just got to watch them come in and and and and be, you know, they got hooked up with our groups and stuff, and so we became I mean, how Lenhart truly was a hippie. You know, Roberta Rogers. There was true Hippies, David Payne, true Hippies there were these people, but God used them, and they came in, and they became, you know, these wonderful. You know, pillars in in our, in our world, here in Kansas. But their backgrounds are just amazing. They truly work. If they ask you your question, how do we get involved? Here's what we grandma had a keyword seeking because we we were studying astrology. We were studying reincarnation. We were seeking. or something more in life at the time, and I think that's true of so many of the Hippies it was that seeking. you know, that empty part of you seeking thing and you know you, you know our testimony and shelly your mom having the arthritis, the rheumatoid arthritis couldn't really walk or use the leg very well. We were just seeking, and all of a sudden we got connected to the church through a friend of ours at the time who got saved. And then we just say there were miraculous things happening, Nicholas, I mean, it was just. It was just a phenomenal move of the Holy Spirit. There were healings. There were miracles. There was Goddrey. You really, if you haven't seen the Jesus Revolution, it really portrays it really well, as what was happening at the time. In the in the case of a lot of hippies, I think they said, Okay, we finally found peace and love in Jesus Christ. Here it is like we had like, do we? It's the Lord in bringing those kids to the Lord bringing them in. We did have signs and wonders, because back in the day people did miraculously get healed, and you know, so they were, seeing that there was a different way than the way they were living. So you know, we got like you said Experience. These people coming in and getting, you know, becoming our friends, you know, getting in our groups. And it was. It was a beautiful, beautiful time. I think, when Grandma first. when grandma first came home that night from getting saved and started throwing books away, and I called Unity, who we were connected with in a way through what we were studying, and they said, Well, there's several paths to the top of the mountain. She's found one, and you know you're on one, and you'll both get there. Don't worry. That just didn't ring true with me, and the reason I mentioned. That was, I think, even during the hippie movement. If you went down to one of these parks on a Sunday and said, I know Jesus, they go. Oh, that's cool, that's cool. You found your way. That's cool, you know, but they continue on with whatever good and wouldn't do it. Well, that switched when the Jesus movement moved when the Lord moved it. Just kind of bams, you know. A lot of people go. Oh, this is the way  And it just like said millions and millions. Billions of those young people came to the Lord and then experienced all these miracles and these things happening at the time.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Oh, wow! That is yeah. I mean, you say that kind of called the sixties to a close when you, if you look at the sixtys as a whole is like a whole movement thing. What would you say is the end of the sixties?

19139085677: I say that the end of the seventies or the beginning of the seventies is when all those kids started getting saved. And then after that, we were so involved immersed in the church that, as far as you know, when you're married, you do stuff with married people. It's not like you're running around big groups of people. So I would say, I would say in the early seventies is when you know kind of the end of it. I'd say about the end of it. So it was yeah. Beginning of the seventies

Nicholas Higginbotham: that you think was the Jesus movement the end? Or was there other things, or was it just kinda it just stopped.

19139085677: Well, when you say stopped. You know you can't put like a stop point on it. But when you have, when you have those kids, you know the teenagers that we were what we've been talking about today when they got to be older, and they knew they had to, you know, give up their childish ways and put on a, you know, put on some decent clothes and go get a job to eat. so that they did that. And then the seekers, you know God brought them to him. So they became Christians. You know the the hip, you know. That was the Jesus Revolution. So many thousands and thousands of kids got safe. But then I think the rest of that group it's like, Hey, we're now like 20 years old, you know, we're not like kids trying to find our way. So we gotta get a job. So I think there wasn't like an exact stop point. But it was because they grew up. They grew up and out of that, and had to, you know, provide, you know, get a living. I think I think, Nicholas, my answer would be, how do you define the hippie movie. Yeah, there's not in the parks anymore. The music's gone away. The counterculture music's not there, although some people still listen to it. What I would say, was the hippie movement hasn't technically stopped because the philosophy still lives on in some people.

Nicholas Higginbotham: Okay, as I mentioned before.

19139085677: it's it the apparent, the gatherings and the kind of counterculture music has ended. But I think the philosophy still is there in a lot of people I've met. I've met politicians

Nicholas Higginbotham: that is awesome. That is I'm gonna stop the recording now, because I think I mean, you guys gave me so much information. But I'm gonna call you back on my my telephone. Okay?

19139085677: Yeah.

Nicholas Higginbotham: I'll talk to you in just a second

19139085677: call. You talk to you minute. Well.